So app.vue right here,
we can see that we have just the generic
components here side by side.
And so for the todo viewer, I wanna start
giving you at least a little bit of
insight on how you might abstract
some of that functionality.
So for example, for todo viewer, we have
here that we have this title right here,
hello friend and masters, but maybe
something we want to be able to customize.
So we need to define props.
So all we need to do to do that using
the composition API is a helper
function called define props
as you would kind of expect.
So to find props is basically
a function that takes an object.
And this is how you normally define props
in view, basically on a standard, so
basically call it a title.
And what kind of title will it be?
It'll be a type string and
I'm just gonna make it a you know,
I'll do I'll make it a default
of hello front and masters.
So in other words, if the person
forgets to pass one in, it's fine,
the title will get rendered,
otherwise you don't need to do that.
And so for
those who haven't used view a lot,
another attribute that's possible
is something called required true.
But typically my recommendation is, if you
have a default the required true is kind
of redundant because it basically
means you're guaranteed to have it.
On the other hand if you have
no default and it is required,
then basically you'll need
to throw the required on.
So, basically you should never
see these two really side
by side it should really be one or
the other.
And so, in this case,
we have a default so we're good.
So, to show it to actually render
that thing, we can go ahead and
just replace hello friend and
masters with the title attribute.
And to prove that this works, we're gonna
come in here inside of our todo viewer.
Okay, and we're gonna do the title and
this time we'll say, this is fun, save.
Now, when we come over here and
refresh, something's broken.
Undefined text color variable.
That's a separate thing that broke and
that has been broken into the viewer.
Okay, that's totally fine.
And that actually does make sense
because he left a bunch of styles here.
That we were playing with.
And so this was just kind
of experimental code, so
we're not gonna worry about that,
and we'll save it now.
Okay, and so now you can see,
this is fun, it's now appearing.
So that's nice, but then what if,
say for example, you wanted to,
let's see,
let's look at todo viewer again.
And inside of here we have this
whole photo section, right?
And what if we wanna actually let
someone configure the image, right?
Not only that, we wanna give them
the ability to credit someone.
So let's say for example,
we have an image, right?
I know it got deleted, but earlier I
think we had it public todo, right?
So it was like this.
So it was like todo.jpeg, and so
we know that normally there's an all but,
this is gonna get deleted shortly.
When you look at this, the problem is that
if you try to configure this as props,
what do you have to define?
You have to define the image.
You have to define the image alt, then
you have to define the text photo by, and
then, wait, if it's like a text, there's a
lot of configuration that's gonna happen.
And so one of the problems that frequently
occurs with a lot of frameworks is when it
comes to props,
people tend to over rely on it.
And you get like prop drilling and
a lot of things that tend to happen.
And it feels like you're reading a
dictionary by the time you're done using.
Do you need to like read documentation or
to use a single component, and
that's just a bit overkill.
So, in view, something that we
have is something called slots.
And this is a very important concept.
So if you think about it like this,
if we were to like wrap this in a div,
this is essentially let's go and
just do that for like to wireframe it out.
This is a div with an id that's basically,
let's call it hero.
This is like the hero section, right?
We have a photo with the credit
of the image, and so what you
ideally want is to make it easy for anyone
to drop stuff inside of the hero div.
That's basically what you want to do.
Well, using that exact same thinking cuz
this is actually just normal HTML if you
think about it, we use it all the time
in the A-tag you drop stuff in it,
in the div-tag you drop stuff in.
Well, view has a built in, basically
a built in component called slot.
And so I just self close it,
because there's no point like this.
Okay, and so the interesting thing about
the slot, is that it basically says, hey,
in this component, there's a section,
and I want you to drop stuff in here.
So to prove that this works,
I'm gonna come in here, and
inside of my component now
normally they're self enclosed.
This is how we were used to seeing them.
But if we treat them actually as normal
HTML element, or like web components,
there's been a lot of
discussion about this recently.
Now we can just drop stuff in here.
So, I could really just be like,
okay I'm just gonna drop an h2
to does this really work?
And then I'm also gonna drop that
image right now just because I can,
and I'll just say this is a source to
slash todo.jpg, that's it and save.
If you come over here, you'll notice
it actually just gets slotted in.
And it's funny because when I first saw
this, it seemed like such a novel concept.
But again,
we do this all the time in HTML.
And so view opens up a way for
you to automatically drop that in.
And so what's cool with the slots then,
however, is you're probably thinking like,
okay, that's cool.
But then like,
what if I have other slots I wanna put in.
Let's say, we don't know what
metrics we wanna display.
Maybe we wanna change this part.
So you might be like, okay, well,
let me just comment this out for now.
And you'll be like, okay,
oops, I jumped too far.
Yeah, I'm just gonna put another slot.
Well, something should
probably be occurring to you,
as you see this is you now have two slots,
and naturally,
your compiler is gonna be like,
which one do I use?
As well, don't worry,
we have a solution for that.
And the solution for
that is that slots get names.
So I could be like, well,
the name of this slot will be metrics.
And by default,
the default slot is name is default, but
I like to be more explicit just
because it's a little bit cleaner.
And so we'll just call this section hero.
And so you're probably thinking then,
okay, well then how does
this actually work?
Well, the way this would work
is you would actually wrap
the HTML that you wanna put
in there with a template.
And so this gets a little like inception
the bit because you're like wait
isn't the template the outside part.
But it's like really a template,
it's just a way to
tell the compiler there's some HTML
that I want you to group together.
And so this template then gets to
be passed what is called a V-slot.
So basically, think of a v-directive,
V-slot whatever, but this is saying that,
hey, we know that we're
gonna be using a v-slot.
And then you pass it an argument,
which is the name of the slot.
So in this one, I'm gonna add hero.
And then I'm gonna add another template.
And this V-slot is gonna go to metrics.
And this time what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna say.
This word save.
So now you'll see, well, this work showed
up below the button just as you'd expect.
And then does this really work with
the image shows up at the top.
But what might not be intuitive
at first glance, though,
is that it doesn't need
to be in this order.
You can flip this, so if I flip
the name of it, you'll notice it just,
it puts it exactly where you want it to.
Now, don't get me wrong,
I would personally prefer to organize it
the way it's probably intended to display.
But just for the sake of understanding
that it's possible, there's that.
Now just so you know,
though the VSA does have a shorthand.
So if you didn't know already, so
V on, if you're like V on click.
This can be short handed
to an add symbol and
we've already used the other one which
I didn't get to explain at the time.
But V bind which I can attribute
will make it a JavaScript, and
so this would normally be
short handed like this.
Well, so the V slot which can to be clear
it should only be used with this template
element is not meant to be used with
generic divs and stuff like that.
You can shorthand it to
just the hash symbol.
And so the way to think of it is like an
ID is basically what you're doing there.
It's really a preference thing I do see a
lot of people using it because developers
love shorthand.
But I found that for people who aren't
using slots as much it's a little bit
confusing to see that because
they're like it's just like a CSS.
Class ID is that like, so then googling,
it becomes a little bit tricky.
And so for me, I don't mind just
being a little bit more explicit.
But again, this is a preference and
your team will figure it out.
If everyone on the team knows what it is,
no one's confused and by all means,
feel free to use a shorthand.
But for what I'm teaching in particular,
I always like to just write out
the longhand for this in particular.
So that no one's ever confused because
then people can just literally Google V
slot and then that will take
them to the right place.
As we know that the hash symbol has a lot
of different meanings in programming so
hence I like to try to avoid
that whenever possible.
Okay so, the last thing I'm going
to show you is that the interesting
thing about slots, though,
is that you can pass them props.
And so if you haven't heard the concept
of, it's typically called scope slots,
but I prefer to call them slot props.
Because what it's essentially doing
is normally when you think of data,
you think of the fact that
the parent passes it to the child.
But you'll notice anything with a slot
though is that you're allowing the parent
to divine how something's being
displayed inside the child.
What if you could actually expose some of
the data back into the slot that it's so
we could rearrange it the way it wants to.
So an example of this is let's say I'm
gonna go ahead and say completed items.
I'll just say completed and
this will be bound to complete
a.items I'm sorry completed
items just like that.
What this does is when you go back into
your app inside of this slot for metrics.
What you can actually do is you
get this slot props object.
Now, it's not called slot
props it's an object, but
this is what I normally term it because
that's basically what's happening.
And so just to show you what's in here
we're going to do a pre on slot props.
Okay, and what you'll notice is, in this
particular case, completed is empty.
But obviously if I go ahead and
fetch that there's like a whole
list of completed items.
And so the thing about this
atensil twist people up though,
is that exposing your
data from your child.
This stuff inside a slot is not
actually exposed to the parent scope.
It's just within the context of the slot,
and that's the bends people's
minds all the time, which is why I
tried to approach it as slot props.
It's a prop for the slot, not a prop for
the parent, it's a prop for the slot.
So this way this is how if you look
at some of the component libraries,
this is how they let you actually
configure how things are displayed.
So like a multi-select, though, let's say
that okay, well, you have these given
options that in this select, you can
rearrange it however your branding wants,
put the icon on the left,
put the icon on the right.
Whatever, but I've maintained
the data in this child component.
And now I've exposed it back to you so
that you can now make it look pretty.
But do not try to then go well I'm going
to take this and put it in a method and
my parent.
I'm gonna do some funny stuff
like that's shared state.
We need a cleaner way of doing
that that's not what this is for.
So now, for example,
we could say in metrics is maybe in this
particular case we wanna stay strong and
then we can say like
slot props.completed.length and
then just this items completed.
And now you can see zero items completed,
but
if I fetch the data,
90 items are completed.
And that's a really powerful thing that
you can do now that you can expose this
sort of like, again,
it's almost like a little bit of a tunnel.
But again, think of it more for display
purposes and not for logic purposes.
The moment you wanna like to
share state and do that stuff,
we'll come to that later on, I promise.
But for this thing of it as display.
And so the other thing though, in case you
don't like this slot props things because,
again, developers we'd
love shortening things.
I do think this is an instance where
slot props is a little bit overkill.
And so you can actually D structure
it to just say completed like this.
And then this will work exactly the same,
and it's a little bit cleaner, but
it does require that understanding that
what you're destructuring is an object or
props that are being
passed at the child level.
And so I think a lot of people when
they see this for the first time,
they're just like,
what the heck is going on?
So that's why I always
break it down this way.
And once your team
understands what's happening,
it's actually quite a pretty clean syntax,
because then you can map this one
directly to the completed down here.